---
layout: post
title: "Drawdown"
permalink: /drawdown
comments: true
categories: 
---

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/javascripts/posts/drawDown/style.css">

The drawdown of a series refers to largest decrease in value between two points. If you were to purchase and sell a stock, the start and end of stock's drawdown would be the worst time to do so. Conversely, if you had perfect knowledge of stock's price and the ability to buy and sell a short once, you'd want to identify the drawdown period in order to maximize profits. 

Since order matters, calculating drawdown isn't as simple as finding the maximum and minimum values of the series - if the minimum occurs before the maximum, such an approach will identify a period of application. To avoid this case, we could iterate over each index of the series `i`, then compare the price at time `i` to the price at all subsequent times `j`. Max drawdown is equal to the largest difference between prices at `i` and `j`:

```javascript 
for (var i = 0; i < prices.length; i++){
    for (var j = i + 1; j < prices.length; j++){
        dif = prices[i] - prices[j];
        maxDrawdown = maxDrawdown > dif ? maxDrawdown : dif; 
    }
}
```

While accurate, this algorithm require many value comparisons:

<div id='drawDownNaive' style='width: 100%; height: 300px'></div>

If the series has `n` prices, `n*(n - 1)/2` comparisons are needed (the number of comparisons done during `i`th pass through of the inner loop is n - i - 1; the [sum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triangular_number) of all those comparisons is `1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n - 1`). The number of comparisons increases faster than `n` - if there are 100 values, 4950 comparisons are needed, while 200 values requires 19900 comparisons. For series covering a long period of time or with a great deal of granularity, this algorithm might be too slow even for a fast computer.

Instead of comparing every value with every other value, we can exploit the sequential requirement and make only `n - 1` comparisons: 

```javascript 
var peak = 0;
for (var i = 1; i < prices.length; i++){
    dif = prices[peak] - prices[i];
    peak = dif < 0 ? i : j; 
    maxDrawdown = maxDrawdown > dif ? maxDrawdown : dif; 
}
```

Iterating over each index `i` of the series in order, the maximum decline ending at point `i` will start at the highest point of the series so far. Passing over the series we keep track of two numbers - the `peak` of the series and the maximum decline in price between `peak` and `i`. 

<div id='oN' style='width: 100%; height: 300px'></div>

The speed difference between the two algorithms is proportional to number of prices. Calculating drawdown with the second approach on a series with 100 values takes 99 comparisons instead of 4950 - 50 (100/2) times faster. A series with 200 values requires 199 comparisons instead of 19900 - 100 (200/2) times faster.











<script src="/javascripts/libs/d3.4.11.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script src="/javascripts/libs/lodash.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script src="/javascripts/posts/negBarTransition/lib.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

<script src="/javascripts/posts/drawDown/scales.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script src="/javascripts/posts/drawDown/naive.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script src="/javascripts/posts/drawDown/oN.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

<meta property="og:image" content="/images/thumbnails/215-teeth.png" />
